General overview:

I developed this rearing protocol to satisfy the following aims: wanted tens of
thousands of flies of similar age (2 - 6 days old) in a single chamber for simultaneous release; wanted
to provide a protein-poor "meridic" diet for the adults with the assumption that this could
encourage dispersal; wanted to come away with a fairly accurate estimate of the number of flies
reared; wanted the obvious things like low mortality, low degree of wing damage.

Recipes
*******

Fly food for larvae: made by "fly kitchen;" same recipe as used by the rest of the lab.
Yeast sprinkled in after flipping out studs

Fly food for adults:
To make 2L (enough to cover bottom of one release chamber):
1.78 L deionized water
13.6 g agar (BD Bacto Agar, 214010)
32.0 g sucrose
1.25 g CaCl2
15.3 mL 95% EtOH

Make food in a pyrex flask on a hot/stir plate. Microwave deionized water in 500 mL
batches before adding to flask on hot plate (seriously expedites the process).
With continuous stirring, combine all ingredients, barring EtOH. Stir and heat until
agar fully dissolves (should occur at 85-90 C). Turn off heat and allow to cool to below 65C;
add EtOH. Pour 2L of this warm solution into the bottom of each release chamber, taking care to
minimize bubbles. Pouring should be done before the solution cools below 45C
(approx. polymerization temperature).

Rearing protocol
****************
Several weeks prior to intended release date, ensure that enough studs
will be available ~ 12 days prior to intended release date. Want to have 10 females (and ~10 males)
available to stud each bottle. For typical releases, I have studded 120 bottles for each release chamber.
(To keep things manageable, I typically use the same studs for any additional release chambers, causing DOBs between
release chambers to be staggered by one day.) So for a typical release, I need to have 1,200 females
and ~1,200 males (less crucial) available for studding.

Anaesthetize studs in batches of ~1000-2000 on CO2 plate
Gently mix them around to make sure males and females are evenly distributed on plate
Count out several piles of 20 flies; with these as a visual aid, divide the remaining flies on the
plate into piles of approximately 20 flies.
Brush each pile of 20 into a standard bottle of fly food.
Allow studs to mate and lay eggs for 24 - 32 hours
Flip out studs; they can be flipped into a second batch of bottles (e.g. if I intend to populate a second release chamber)
While flipping out studs, sprinkle in yeast and carefully insert each "pupal sheet."
Take several seconds to pull tabs on pupal sheets, adjusting tension to maximize contact of sheet with the wall of the bottle.

Keep bottles at a temperature to control development timing -- incubators ranging from <--------  ########
As larvae begin crawling up the walls and pupating, monitor them daily; it is ideal to transfer the pupal sheets to the
release chambers *as soon as* >95% of flies have pupated. (The earlier the better because it is extremely
inconvenient to perform the transfer once even a tiny fraction of the flies have eclosed. In other words, better to transfer
in the midst of a few stray larvae than in the midst of a few stray adults.)

Prepare release chamber for pupal transfer:
    1) Pour, and allow to cool, 2L of sucrose agar in bottom of chamber.
    2) Ensure that the chamber will securely hold adult flies; check arm port for gaps or holes, and check
    lid fabric to ensure there are no gaps in the velcro and that none of the stitching has weakened the fabric weave.
    3) String two lines of fine tubing (optimal diameter and friction with pupal sheets) across each release chamber.
    4) Remove pupal sheets from bottles, unfurling each with some care to prevent dislodging pupae.
    4.5) Using transillumination setup, image a random subset of pupal sheets for quantification.
    5) Hang each pupal sheet on the fine tubing. Keeping the sheets in the same orientation with respect to one another facilitates
    their later removal.
    6) Double-check that arm-port and lid fabric are very secure with no gaps. Finally, secure the plastic lid
    (which simply protects the lid fabric from stray elbows). Store release chamber in incubator or room temperature.
    7) Monitor each release chamber on a daily basis. Look for escaping flies, excessive mortality, condensation dripping down walls,
    signs of sucrose agar drying out, etc. Excessive condensation can be mitigated by adding some dry paper towel, as well as removing
    the plastic lid (increases air exchange). Manipulations can be done through the arm port.

On the day of the release:
    1) Through arm port, remove all pupal sheets. (Everyone who was going to eclose should have done so by now.)
    This might reduce mortality and wing damage during the jostling in the car.
    2) In place of pupal sheets, drape long sheets of dry brown paper towel over the tubing, to provide as much
    soft surface area for landing as possible, and also to provide some humidity buffering.
    3) Cover (but do not seal) each chamber with IR-reflective tarp when loading into the car. Direct sun falling on the
    release chamber causes flies to aggregate with horrifying density; this seems liable to damage wings.
    4) In transit, make all efforts to keep temperature in the car reasonably cool; this is a tradeoff between stressing the
    flies and stressing the radiator. In my experience, oscillating between air conditioning on (when car is moving > 20 mph,
    this is less bad for the car) and air conditioning off has always yielded healthy flies and reasonable results. I have never
    monitored the temperature in the release chambers; it is probably worth devoting a raspberry pi and thermocouple to this.

Releasing flies:
